.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 2001 2002 ... 2021 2022 
.\"      John McCue <jmccue@jmcunx.com>
.\" 
.\"  Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\"  purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\"  copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\" 
.\"  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\"  WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\"  ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\"  WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\"  ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\"  OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH justleft 1 "2020/09/23" "JMC" "Left Justify String"
.SH NAME
justleft - Left Justify Text
.SH SYNOPSIS
justleft [OPTIONS] [FILE...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Removes leading white space from lines of a text file.
ie: left justifies all lines of the input text file/stream.
Output written to stdout or the file specified.
.PP
If no files (FILE) are specified on the command line or
if FILE has name '-', stdin (Standard Input) is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-e file
OPTIONAL - Errors written to the file specified, defaults to stderr.
.TP
-f
Force file create.
Create file even if the target file exists.
.TP
-h
Show brief help and exit.
.TP
-o file
OPTIONAL - Write output to the file specified, defaults to stdout.
.TP
-R
Removes trailing white space from each line of a text file,
default is to leave trailing white space as is.
.TP
-V
output version information and exit.
.TP
-v
Optional, Verbose Level.
Print information about the run,
default do not show run messages.
Can be specified multiple times,
each specification increases verbose level:
.nf
    Level  Meaning
    -----  -------------------------------------
    = 0    Do not show any messages, default
    >= 1   Show files as they are processed
    >= 2   Above plus file counts
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Processes one line at a time, assumes the file is a text file.
.PP
Does not word wrap lines, only removes leading white space
from each text line.
.PP
Note, if an error occurs while parsing command line
arguments, errors may NOT be written to the error file
supplied on the command line.
.PP
If available, you can use:
.nf
    sed 's/^[\\t ]*//' < infile > outfile
.fi
to perform the same action.
Note, depending upon your version
of sed, you may need to replace \\t with a real
tab character.
.SH BUGS
Do not know of any.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
none.
.SH ERROR-CODES
.nf
0 success
1 processing error or help/rev displayed
2 One or more input files could not be processed
.fi
.SH SEE-ALSO
.fi
ed(1), ex(1), sed(1), fmt(1), rtw(1), lcase(1)
